# News_recommendation
Today the world is flooded and overwhelmed with the news.  According to our literature review,20more than 2 million articles are published every day on the web. The online consumption of news is further fueled by their dissemination on various social media platforms. According to studies done at Pew Research Center, 55% of U.S. adults now get their news from social media either "often" or "sometimes".  This explosion of online published content resulted in various researches on the personalized news feed for users. Our literature surveys show that most of this research is driven by content-based recommendation techniques, which means recommending articles to users based on their viewing history. We realized that this approach lacks a critical element of inculcating user-side interactions with the news and soon realized that the problem lies with the limited user-interactions indicators such as click rate and time spent. We have tried to mitigate this problem by analyzing user networks on social media platforms. While harvesting metrics such as click rates and time-spent on reading a news article can be difficult, free APIs can be used to gather information on social networks. We have used Twitter data for our project. In this project, we propose a method for news recommendation on social media platforms.  Our recommendation engine employs user-side information as well as the news article information for a hybrid Collaborative Filtering and Content-Based Filtering (CF-CBF) approach, to recommend a news article to the user. We have experimented with both vectorized and graph-based approaches to cluster our users based on their news consumption patterns. Our method uses Louvain community detection to group the users into clusters based on the number of retweets. This forms the basis of the Collaborative Filtering component of our algorithm. On the item-side, we again experimented with vectorized and probabilistic approaches to find article clusters. Combining this with the time specific user interest for each topic, we get a Content-Based Filtering (CBF) recommendation score. Finally, we take the two recommendation scores and combine them to a single score.  We recommend the most relevant articles from the topics with the highest CF-CBF score for each user at a particular time period
